{\rtf1\adeflang1037\ansi \deff5\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f4\froman\fcharset0\fprq2 Times New Roman{\*\falt Times NR C20thC};}{\f5\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2 Arial;}{\f11\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1 Courier New;}{\f14\fbidi \fcharset177\fprq2 Miriam;}
{\f17\fbidi \fcharset177\fprq2 David;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql\fi567\nowidctlpar \ql\rtlch\af14\afs24 \ltrch\f5\fs24 \snext0 Normal;}{
\s1\qc\fi567\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar \qc\rtlch\caps\af14\afs24\kerning28 \ltrch\b\caps\f5\fs28\kerning28 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\qc\fi567\keepn\nowidctlpar \qc\rtlch\caps\af14\afs24 \ltrch\b\caps\f5\fs28 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 2;}{
\s3\qc\fi567\sb240\sa60\keepn\nowidctlpar \qc\rtlch\af14\afs24\auldb \ltrch\f5\fs24\uldb \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 3;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\ql\fi567\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4153\tqr\tx8306 \ql\rtlch\af14\afs24 \ltrch\f5\fs24 
\sbasedon0\snext15 header;}{\s16\ql\fi567\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4153\tqr\tx8306 \ql\rtlch\af14\afs24 \ltrch\f5\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext16 footer;}{\s17\ql\fi567\nowidctlpar \ql\rtlch\af14\afs24 \ltrch\f5\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext17 footnote text;}{\*\cs18 \additive
\rtlch\af14\super \ltrch\f14\fs20\super \sbasedon10 footnote reference;}{\s19\ql\fi-1559\li1559\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvl10\pndec\pnqc\pnf4\pnstart1\pnindent1559\pnhang{\pntxta .}}\ql\rtlch\af14\afs24 \ltrch\f11\fs24 \sbasedon0\snext19 code;}}{\info
{\title \'e4\'f6\'f2\'fa \'f0\'e5\'f9\'e0 \'ec\'ee\'e7\'f7\'f8 \'e1\'ee\'e3\'f2\'e9 \'e4\'ee\'e7\'f9\'e1}{\author Erel Segal}{\operator Erel Segal}{\creatim\yr1999\mo10\dy12\hr15\min58}{\revtim\yr1999\mo10\dy19\hr9\min42}{\printim\yr1999\mo10\dy11\hr11}
{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords344}{\nofchars1963}{\*\company Microsoft Corporation}{\vern57445}}\paperw11907\paperh16840\margl1134\margr1134\margt1701\margb1701\ltrsect \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\aftnnar\formshade \fet0\ltrpar \ql
\sectd \ltrsect\linex0\headery454\footery284\colsx709 {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}
{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7
\pnlcrm\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnqc\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\trowd \ltrrow\trgaph108\trleft-108 
\cellx4819\cellx9746 \pard\plain \ltrpar\ql\s17\ql\fi567\nowidctlpar\intbl \rtlch\af14\afs24 \ltrch\f5\fs24 {\rtlch \af14 \ltrch \f14 M. Sc. Thesis\cell }\pard\plain \ltrpar\qr\fi567\nowidctlpar\intbl \rtlch\af14\afs24 \ltrch\f5\fs24 {\rtlch \af14 \ltrch 
\f14 Computer Science\cell }\pard \ltrpar\ql\ql\widctlpar\intbl {\rtlch \af14 \ltrch \f14 \row }\pard \ltrpar\qc\qc\fi567\nowidctlpar {\rtlch \af14 \ltrch \f14 Erel Segal
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ltrpar\qc\s1\qc\fi567\sa60\keepn\widctlpar \rtlch\caps\af14\afs24\kerning28 \ltrch\b\caps\f5\fs28\kerning28 {\rtlch \af14 \ltrch \f14 Probabilistic Morphological Analyzer}{\rtlch \af14 \ltrch \b0\f17\fs32  }{\rtlch \af14 \ltrch \f14 
for Hebrew Undotted Texts
\par }\pard\plain \ltrpar\qc\qc\fi567\nowidctlpar \rtlch\af14\afs24 \ltrch\f5\fs24 {\rtlch \af14 \ltrch \f14 Supervisor: Prof. A. Itai
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \ltrpar\qc\s2\qc\fi567\keepn\nowidctlpar \rtlch\caps\af14\afs24 \ltrch\b\caps\f5\fs28 {\rtlch \af14 \ltrch \f14 abstract
\par }\pard\plain \ltrpar\ql\ql\fi567\widctlpar \rtlch\af14\afs24 \ltrch\f5\fs24 {\rtlch \af14 \ltrch \f14 Morphological analysis of words in a text is the first stage of most natural language applications. Due to the rich morphology of the Hebrew langua
ge and the inadequacy of the undotted script which results in a great degree of morphological ambiguity, the problem has not yet found a satisfactory solution. We notice that the problem of morphological analysis of Hebrew texts is similar to the well-stu
died problem of part-of-speech tagging in English, and thus can apply some of the approaches used to solve that problem.
\par In this work we find the correct morphological analysis by combining probabilistic methods with syntactic analysis. The solution consists of three consecutive phases:
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\ltrpar\ql\rtlch\af14 \ltrch\f14 \'fd1\'fe.\tab}}\pard \ltrpar\ql\ql\fi-283\li283\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\rtlch \af14 \ltrch \i\f14 The word phase:}{\rtlch \af14 \ltrch \f14 
 In this phase we find all possible morphological analyses of each word in the analyzed text. Then we approximate, for each possible analysis, the probability that it is the correct analysis, without relating to the context of the word. For this purpose w
e use a small analyzed training corpus and an algorithm that takes advantage of the Hebrew morphology. After approximating the probabilities, we assign each word the analysis with the highest approximated probability.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\ltrpar\ql\rtlch\af14 \ltrch\f14 \'fd2\'fe.\tab}}\pard \ltrpar\ql\ql\fi-283\li283\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart2\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\rtlch \af14 \ltrch \i\f14 The pair phase}{\rtlch \af14 \ltrch \f14 
: In this phase we use correction-commands, which correct the analysis of a word according to the previous or to the next word. The correction commands are learned automatically from the same training corpus mentioned above.
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\ltrpar\ql\rtlch\af14 \ltrch\f14 \'fd3\'fe.\tab}}\pard \ltrpar\ql\ql\fi-283\li283\widctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlbody\pndec\pnstart3\pnindent283\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\rtlch \af14 \ltrch \i\f14 The sentence phase}{\rtlch \af14 \ltrch \f14 
: In this phase we use a simple syntactical analyzer to evaluate different alternatives for the analysis of whole sentences. We use a hill-climbing algorithm to find the analysis which best matches both the syntactical information obtai
ned from the syntactical analysis and the probabilistic information obtained from the previous two phases.
\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql\ql\fi567\widctlpar {\rtlch \af14 \ltrch \f14 
Using all these three phases results in a morphological analysis which is correct for about 96% of the words. This result approaches results reported for English probabilistic part-of-speech tagging. It does so by using a very small training corpus 
\endash  5000 words only, in contrast to million-word corpora used for English tagging.
\par The results show that combining probabilistic methods with syntactic information improves the accuracy of morphological analysis.
\par }}